Welcome to Conestone.
Here's Pastor Steve's message of the week.
Well it is a joy to be with you again this morning and you know like I said Elise and I have a room upstairs where we watch movies and stuff and I had my
seat over the last couple of weeks set up in front of that white screen.
That one on the wall is actually a screen there.
So that's kind of what that looked like.
But anyway, it's too much of a close-up for me.
If you ask me, I look better from a distance, I think.
But anyway, it was fun being able to do that.
And we did notice some things by it.
But it is nothing can beat being in God's house.
together.
So I'm glad the fellowship of believers is here.
So I'm excited to be here today, not only for just our normal worship service and things that we normally do, but today is a very special day.
And we're excited today to be ordaining in as a deacon, Brother Rick Burkey and Brother Joe Aravilis this morning who have just come on as deacons.
for us here at Cornerstone.
So our brother Rick has some experience.
He is a licensed and ordained minister, but he is not an ordained deacon.
So we probably could have superseded this today for him, but I like to do things a little bit differently with this.
We're not ordaining the wives, but I do like to include the wives in what we do when we go to lay hands and pray.
and that kind of thing.
So I ask them to be here as well.
Also want to say we have another Deacon that has come on board with us for the next three years.
His brother Joe Brewer, but our brother Joe has already been through this process and he is already in ordained Deacon.
And so we're happy to have him on board as well this morning, he and Kathy.
But I'm going to ask our brother Rick and Ms. Wanda and our brother Joe and Ms. Debbie, if you would, I'm going to ask you if you would come forward.
I'm going to ask you if you would to just have a seat on this front row this morning.
as we get ready to begin what we're going to be doing here this morning.
Our entire message is going to be centered around deacon ordination.
And what that means, what a deacon does and how you can find some scripture in the Bible to explain more to you about who a deacon is and how they support each other and support the Lord and of course support the local church.
So I'm excited to be here with them today.
And I know that they have already basically totally immersed themselves into the work here that the Lord has for them.
cornerstone, but being a deacon means that we're going to ordain you into that.
So it's an encouragement to me and should be to all of us just watching these two men and their wives work in the church.
Their commitment to the Lord and commitment to God's people here are on full display.
So we're grateful to have them to be part of what they would do.
So I want to just give you a short message this morning to welcome.
All of us here today is we're going to be working together to forward and put forward and
forth the kingdom of God.
This is what we
call to do and these two men have made it known that they want to be part of helping us lead the charge here with this.
So we're thankful for them.
We're going to go to visit several different passages of scripture this morning and I'm going to help us detail everything that we need to know or what we can see in the Bible here as to what a deacon is and how they operate.
It means that they are entering into leadership into our church.
They are among the leadership there of us.
There's a few responses
responsibilities that are expected of them.
Are we dismissing the kids?
Nope.
Okay.
All right.
So y'all just got bored and said, I'm leaving.
I'm kidding.
I'm so kidding.
But it's good to have you with us again this morning.
Turn with me to 1 Peter if you would.
Chapter five versus one to four.
1 Peter chapter five versus one to four.
I'll give you here just a few passages of scripture.
We'll remain seated as we read today.
There's several passages that we will be going to, but you can't tell me when you're there.
If you don't mind, gotta say, I got it.
First Peter chapter five versus one to four has this to say, I'm on the wrong page here.
First Peter chapter five versus one to four.
Here's what it says.
To the elders among you, I appeal as a fellow elder and a witness of Christ's sufferings, who also will share in the glory to be revealed.
Be shepherds of God's flock.
That is under your care, watching over them.
Not because you must, but because you are willing, as God wants you to be, not pursuing dishonest game, but eager to serve, not lording it over those entrusted to you, but being examples to the flock.
And when the chief shepherd appears, you will receive the crown of glory that will never fade away.
In the same way, you who are younger submit yourselves to your elders.
All of you clothe yourself with humility toward one another because God opposes the proud that shows
favor to the humble.
Let's pray together this morning.
Lord, as we take a look at this passage of scripture and many more today, we just pray, Lord, that you will just use this in a mighty way, Father, that will help us just kind of highlight a little bit about what being a deacon is, what being a deacon means, and, Father, just how grateful for we are for these men, Lord, all of our deacons, Lord, who are serving now.
So we're just so grateful, Father, for all of them and
all of our deacons, Lord, who might not be active deacons now, Lord, but there, once we're ordained as a deacon, we are always a deacon.
So we're just grateful for this time and grateful for this opportunity that we have to share with them and to share with one another.
So blessed Lord, use it as how you see fit and it's in the name of Jesus we pray.
Amen.
So for me, when I read this passage of scripture, this right here in first Peter, it tells me that a deacon ought to be something and it says that we should be a caretaker.
Deacon should be a caretaker.
It tells me that God has ordained that position in the church as such.
as a caretaker.
And here at Cornerstone, we've developed a deacon family ministry.
Keith and I had a short discussion about our family ministry even this morning.
And these two men that we're talking to this morning, as well as the other men, you're going to be on their list of families.
And if you have not yet received notice of that, you will be receiving notice of that very soon.
Because each deacon does have a listing of families that fall under their
They're caretakers.
They're responsible for them.
And as our church continues to grow, our Deacon body is just going to be busy as you tend to the needs of our church family.
It's a big job to do that.
But our Deacons realize they understand that this caretaker responsibility is not only just a Sunday night and a Wednesday night type deal, this is a 24-7 type job.
It's necessary on an as needed basis.
Now for our Deacons, we realize that when we're caring for someone, we're demonstrating someone else.
we're demonstrating the life of Jesus Christ and how he showed his caring and being available to you is something that should be seen in them.
As a congregation, you know, I think if we really think about this, all that we're ever really looking for is for someone to love us.
someone to show us compassion, someone to have mercy on us, someone to just be with us, a shoulder to cry on, someone to love and to laugh with, and it's a commitment to be able to do that.
And Joe and Rick, along with our other deacons, are doing a wonderful, wonderful job of providing just that.
So Rick and Joe, as faithful men, you have taken that step today to say something even without words.
just your example as to who you are, you're saying, I'm here, I'm available to you, I want to be your deacon, I want to be someone that you can go to, that you can confide in, someone that you can lean on.
And your example that you're setting for all of us here, even today is one that many others will be able to multi-emulate and want to follow.
So that's a good thing.
But being a deacon means to be a servant.
And this quality of servanthood will reveal itself even more and more to you as you continue to serve the Lord and also serve the local church.
Not only should a deacon be a caretaker, we also see that he should also be a prayer warrior.
So if you look with in the book of James, we'll find something here in chapter five versus 14 to 16.
And I'm sorry, I've got it on the screen.
If you want to, to just write these down or something to keep you from flipping so much, that's fine.
I'm not trying to go too fast, but there, there's some good information here, um, about being a prayer warrior that we find in James chapter five and it's versus 14 to 16.
Here's how it reads.
It says, is anyone among you sick?
Let them call the elders of the church to pray over them and annoy them with oil in the name of the Lord.
And the prayer offered in faith will make the sick person well.
The Lord will raise him up.
If they have sinned, they will be forgiven.
Therefore confess your sins to each other and pray for each other so that you may be healed.
The prayer of a righteous person is powerful and effective.
Now I believe that a committed prayer life, not only for our deacon folks and not only for our church but worldwide, our prayer life, a faithful prayer life is essential.
And it's particularly also essential to a deacon ministry.
I know you've probably noticed it many, many times, but we have a men's prayer group that meets just before our service right here in my office.
And this is something that started with just a couple of guys, two or three guys, that has now moved into something to where most of our men, whether they're deacons or not, they're meeting over here to be able to pray for our Sunday morning service, among other things.
And that to me just speaks very loudly about who we are as a church, as being faithful
prayer warriors.
And I believe that we're doing that well.
But a deacon should, should always live his life upright.
Everybody say upright.
You know what I mean by that?
Therefore their sin must be confessed on a regular basis.
That way they can remain clean before the Lord so that they are clean as they are praying for others.
None of us, whether we're deacons, pastors or otherwise, none of us are without sin.
We all deal with sin.
We all deal with things in our life that is a conflict between us and God.
The devil tries to warm things in to cause us to be separated from him.
It's called sin.
It's impossible for any of us to be sinless, whether we're deacons, pastors, Sony school teachers, laymen, whatever the case may be in order for us to be effective in our own prayer life.
Then we must.
confess our sins regularly.
We must be as clean as we can possibly be before the Lord.
This will help us have that upright relationship that we need with Him.
Then we're going to be able to effectively pray for others as well.
I think the key to a strong deacon ministry and every other ministry really for that matter is a strong prayer life.
It's important that we have a strong
prayer life.
Seeking God's will, seeking His direction, and all that we do must be our first choice whenever we're getting ready to make decisions in our lives, whether they're large or small decisions.
It's important that we seek ye first, the kingdom of God.
We should never allow our prayer lives to suffer in any way, should we?
We should never have anything come our way that keeps us from
Praying we should always as deacons.
We should always is everyone else live our lives with God being first in our lives.
He is the go-to Another area that a deacon must be prepared for is that of a peacemaker a peacemaker Look with me in the book of Acts again.
I'll have it on the screen for you as chapter 15 verses 1 and 2 and
It says certain people came down from Judea to Antioch and were teaching the believers.
Unless you're circumcised according to the custom taught by Moses, you cannot be saved.
This brought Paul and Barnabas into sharp dispute and debate with them.
So Paul and Barnabas were appointed along with some other believers to go up to Jerusalem to see the apostles and the elders about this question.
Now, this couple of verses points out two things to the deacon.
First of all, when your spirit deacons, listen, when your spirit disagrees with what is being taught, it should be questioned in a way that will lead you to stand firm on your faith and know what you believe.
That's important.
In this instance, when you think about Paul and Barnabas, they were sent to discuss this matter with these folks that is talking about because they knew that what was being taught was not sound doctrine.
It was false doctrine.
In this instance, that's why they went there.
And then the second thing that we see from Paul and Barnabas, they went personally to handle this.
They didn't send a courier.
They didn't send anyone.
They wanted to completely rest personally in God's word.
They didn't send anyone else to do this work for them.
They didn't discuss the matter with anyone else.
No other people so that it would filter back into some situation.
So what they were doing here is they were avoiding the possibility of any type of gossip.
Whatever was said came directly from them.
They handled their disputes personally.
So this passage teaches that deacons are considered decision makers in the church.
They stand for what is right.
They don't make decisions on their own.
It's no rogue agents.
They work together as a team.
They do it as a body of men.
They come in agreement through faith and where it comes into to being is it's every decision that they're making should be based on the word of God.
That's the only place that it should come from.
You see, being a deacon means that sometimes you may have to become part of settling some sort of dispute every once in a while.
And you should handle that in a godly manner as a body of men to do that.
So there's certain things that are discussed with deacons that also must not be discussed with anyone else.
This happens from time to time.
This will put to rest any rumors of gossip, any type of self-promoting, any other ungodly characteristic that may come along.
And finally, deacons must set the correct example.
1 Timothy chapter 3, verses 8 to 13 has this to say, in the same way, deacons are to be worthy of respect.
sincere, not indulging in much wine, not pursuing dishonest gain.
They must keep hold of the deep truths of the faith with a clear conscience.
They must first be tested, and then if there's nothing against them, let them serve as deacons.
In the same way, the women are to be worthy of respect, not malicious talkers, but temperate and trustworthy in everything.
A deacon must be faithful to his wife and manage his children and his household well.
Those who have served well gain an excellent standing and great assurance in their faith in Christ Jesus.
Now you'll notice that this passage begins with the wording in the same way.
So what is that referring to?
When we think of it this way, when we look at it, the first seven verses of that chapter are giving the qualifications of a pastor.
So in the same way, a deacon is somewhat like a pastor being that he is responsible for the condition of the flock
However, he is not above the pastor, but should stand with the pastor in the ministry of the church.
A deacon is not only a leader, he is also a follower.
So here's a couple of things that I see in these verses here in 1 Timothy and Rick and Joe, I want to encourage both of you with these couple of things.
First, a deacon is a leader in the church by setting the example for the church.
As a deacon, you've been tested and you'll be tested again.
Things are going to come your way that you may not know exactly how to respond to it and seeking the Lord's wisdom through your prayer life is so important during these times that you will go through.
Remain faithful to the Lord.
And the reason that you remain faithful to the Lord is because he will sustain you and he will remain faithful to you.
Second, a deacon is a follower by also setting the example in the church.
The book of Hebrews chapter 13, verse 17 says this, have confidence in your leaders and submit to their authority because they keep watch over you as those who must give an account.
Do this so that their work will be a joy and not a burden for that would be of no benefit to you.
Setting the example of humbleness and setting the example of submission is, is the key to being a Godly servant.
Most importantly, it shows Jesus's service to us.
So, Joe and Rick, I can't tell you how excited I am about you taking this step into faith.
I'm excited about what God is doing in your life.
I'm excited about what he's doing.
And this is part of the reason that I have your families with you is because I'm excited about the possibilities that all of you have.
I'm proud to, to have servants of God.
Listen, this stand with me.
in the ministry, not beside me, but with me.
You are with me.
And that means something to me.
So he can sort of be leaders.
He can sort of be caretakers.
There to be prayer warriors there to be peacemakers.
And they're responsible for setting a Christian example.
So we have some charges for you today, not
You don't have to take your wallet out.
It's not that kind of charge, Joe.
It's a different kind of charge.
But I want to leave you, Keith's going to come and help me with this, but I want to leave you with one thought.
And this comes from James chapter three, verse one.
And James reminds us here of something he says, not many of you should become teachers, my fellow believers, because you know that we who teach will be judged more strictly.
So men, there are many ways to teach.
One of the most effective ways to teach is through your walk with Jesus Christ.
There's an old hymn in the hymn book that says, let others see Jesus in you.
You remember that old hymn?
Let others see Jesus in you.
Always allow the Lord to lead you and you will be blessed continually.
So I'm going to ask the two of you, Joe and Rick, if you would.
We're going to have an invitation here.
I'm changing just a little bit of what we're doing here.
So I'm just going to ask you guys if you would come and we want to charge you this morning with this.
So I'm going to ask you both if you would come to the pulpit area here.
I'm going to ask Brother Keith if he would come and we have some questions to ask the both of you.
Brother Joe, Brother Rick, I just want to take a minute to say thank you.
Thank you for answering the call.
listen to God and move forward with this.
So I'm going to give you some a charge.
There are seven questions here and I just want each of you to answer so the congregation can hear you and we can hear your witness.
First question, do you agree to be a servant first to Jesus Christ and then to the church?
I do.
Second, do you agree to assist the pastor and do all that you can do to support him as God's leader?
Do you agree to be consistent in your study of the Word of God showing yourself approved and a workman unto God?
Yes.
Do you agree to maintain your beliefs in the Baptist doctrine you affirmed during your Ordination Council?
I do.
Do you agree to do your best to follow the qualifications of a deacon listed in 1 Timothy chapter 3 verse 8 through 13?
Do you agree to be a witness by sharing the gospel to those who are unbelievers?
I do.
And do you agree not to neglect your family and to love your wife as Christ loved the church?
Thank you.
Please don't neglect your family.
Thank you, guys.
You can take a seat.
Yeah, let's don't neglect our families.
That would not be good.
Amen.
God bless you guys.
Thank you, Keith, so much.
It's hard to stand up here and do that kind of thing.
But thank you, buddy.
I appreciate you very much.
Also, we have a charge to the church.
So I'm going to ask all of our church family, if you would, to stand.
And I want to charge you.
All right.
So congregation of Cornerstone Baptist Church, these men have
Now in our presence committed themselves to the trust and the responsibility of being a servant to this church.
So will you as a congregation commit yourself to Christian service in partnership with them by first supporting them, secondly, by praying for them daily and also working alongside them for the betterment of this church.
If you would do that, please respond by saying amen.
Amen.
Thank you.
You may be seated.
So after being found qualified by the deacon body and by their public profession to serve and by the commitment of the church to support Joe and Rick, we want to officially ordain them this morning.
So I'm going to ask them if they would, we have some chairs out for them.
And this is called a laying on of hands ceremony.
And I'm going to ask them, if they would, Rick and Wanda, if you're closer to these, if you would just sit here.
And then Joe and Debbie, I'm going to ask you to sit over here on this side.
We have limited space, so we're trying to be as creative as we can to do this this morning.
So if you would just sit right here.
Now I know that we have some ordained deacons, maybe even some ordained ministers in our crowd today.
We're happy to have you, but I want to open the floor
for any of you who would commit to come and pray for them.
We just want to lay hands on them, pray for them.
You can pray for them individually.
You can pray for them as a couple, but this is open to men, women, children, whoever would commit to come and pray for them.
So Keith is going to, I'm going to ask him if he would just go first and he'll come and he's going to just start forming a line on this side of the aisle.
So if you would just come in and you can start with Joe and Debbie and then make your way over to Rick and Wanda and then we'll be able to exit back out through here.
So you come this morning and pray for them.
If you would, you can go ahead and start forming a line now would be fine.
people said.
Amen.
Well this morning we want to give them a certificate of ordination and we're exceedingly happy for both of them and their families for being part of our Deacon Fellowship and we're just grateful that God has sent them here to serve alongside us.
I'm gonna ask Joe and and and Rick if both of them would come
and stand right here.
I know some of y'all may use this as a photo opportunity.
So we want to make sure that you have that opportunity to do that.
So Rick here is yours and brother Joe here is yours.
So thank you so much.
And we're just so grateful for you and your families.
And I believe that these are the right men for the job.
And along with all of our deacons, I'm just excited for all of them.
So thank you guys so, so much.
God bless you.
Amen.
Ma'am, what'd she say?
Look forward and smile.
Yeah, you go.
That's right.
This is a joyful day.
Amen.
It's awesome.
All right.
Well, I'm going to ask you to, along with your wives, if you would, if you would just join me back here, we're going to dismiss and just ask you to join me so folks can come out and extend to you the right hand.
fellowship and as they're going I don't ever like to leave a service without offering you an opportunity to respond.
If you don't know Jesus Christ as your Lord and Savior today you come and talk with me and we will certainly talk together about how you can come to know Jesus Christ and if you already know him and would like to enhance your relationship with him I would love to pray with you about that so I will be here so you come and talk with me we normally give a full
invitation this is a little different today but I do want you to know that that opportunity is here for you to come and submit yourself these men have surrendered their lives to the Lord by working for him maybe you're willing to do that as well today would be a wonderful day for you to do that so you come and find me this this afternoon and we will talk about that so if you guys will go ahead and I will meet with you out there I'm gonna
Thank you for joining us today on the podcast and learning God's word together at Cornerstone Baptist Church.
To find out more about how to have a personal walk with Jesus, check out the contact page on our website at cbcakin.com.
We'd love to have you visit us at 100 Cornerstone Drive, Akin, South Carolina.
You're always welcome.
Don't hesitate to reach out.
God bless you and have a wonderful day.